# Cervical Cancer Screening and Management (CCSM) Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Analytics

This repository contains scripts for processing and generating analytics from data logged by the CCSM CDS Dashboard to the CDS Dashboard Logger service.


# Overview
The project contains a Quarto notebook which executes various R scripts to import and analyze logfiles generated by the [CCSM CDS Dashboard pilot](https://github.com/ccsm-cds-tools/ccsm-cds-dashboard/tree/pilot).


# Privacy
This project is designed to work with sensitive patient data, including Protected Health Information (PHI) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) recorded from the Cervical Cancer Screening and Management (CCSM) Clinical Decision Support (CDS) project. You should install and run this project **only** on systems which have been authorized for the storage and handling of this data. While the reports generated by this project are intended to generate and publish only aggregated data, without including individual PHI/PII information or revealing individual identities, the analytics environment and process of generating the report can produce intermediate files which do contain sensitive information.

Individuals not authorized to view or handle this information should not have access to the system where this project is installed once sensitive log files have been imported.

# Dependencies
This R project requires R version 4.4 or higher, Quarto version 1.6 or higher. 


## License
C) 2025 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Approved for Public Release: 21-1556. Distribution Unlimited.

Unless otherwise noted, the CDS Dashboard Logger is available under an Apache 2.0 license, no warranty is made and no liability is assumed.
